NMS-13016: Add docs for non-privilged ports and non-root ping (#3490)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/deployment/pages/core/getting-started.adoc

endif::[]
====

> == Receiving SNMP Traps/Informs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Receive SNMP Traps/Informs
```

Reviewer: This is a NH style thing. They suggest not using "ing" verb forms when possible.

OpenNMS {page-component-title} core lets you receive and process SNMP Traps/Informs out of the box.
The OpenNMS {page-component-title} core services run as an unprivileged user and can't bind on port numbers < 1024 without escalated privileges.
For this reason, the default port for the SNMP Trap/Inform listener is set to port number 10162/udp instead of the IANA registered port number 162/udp.
The following example shows how to configure the local firewall daemon to forward port 162/udp to 10162/udp.

TIP: If you need SNMP Trap listener on port 162/udp directly, you can add the Linux `CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE` capability to the Java binary using `setcap`.

>      Be aware this method allows any Java program executed on your system to bind to privileged ports < 1024.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Be aware: this method allows any Java program executed on your system to bind to privileged ports < 1024.
```

endif::[]
====

== Receive SNMP Traps/Informs

OpenNMS {page-component-title} core lets you receive and process SNMP Traps/Informs out of the box.
The OpenNMS {page-component-title} core services run as an unprivileged user and can't bind on port numbers < 1024 without escalated privileges.
For this reason, the default port for the SNMP Trap/Inform listener is set to port number 10162/udp instead of the IANA registered port number 162/udp.
The following example shows how to configure the local firewall daemon to forward port 162/udp to 10162/udp.

TIP: If you need SNMP Trap listener on port 162/udp directly, you can add the Linux `CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE` capability to the Java binary using `setcap`.

>      Be aware: this method allows any Java program executed on your system to bind to privileged ports < 1024.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Be aware: this method allows any Java program run on your system to bind to privileged ports < 1024.
```
NH recommends not using "execute".

[{tabs}]
====
CentOS/RHEL 7/8::
+
--
include::centos-rhel/firewall-core.adoc[]
--

ifeval::["{page-component-title}" == "Horizon"]
Debian/Ubuntu::
+
--
include::debian-ubuntu/firewall-core.adoc[]
--
endif::[]
====

> You can verify your firewall and portforwarding configuration by sending a SNMP trap from a remote system to your OpenNMS {page-component-title} core instance with the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can verify your firewall and port forwarding configuration by sending an SNMP trap from a remote system to your OpenNMS {page-component-title} core instance with the following command:
```

For this reason, the default port for the SNMP Trap/Inform listener is set to port number 10162/udp instead of the IANA registered port number 162/udp.
The following example shows how to configure the local firewall daemon to forward port 162/udp to 10162/udp.

TIP: If you need SNMP Trap listener on port 162/udp directly, you can add the Linux `CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE` capability to the Java binary using `setcap`.
     Be aware: this method allows any Java program executed on your system to bind to privileged ports < 1024.

[{tabs}]
====
CentOS/RHEL 7/8::
+
--
include::centos-rhel/firewall-core.adoc[]
--

ifeval::["{page-component-title}" == "Horizon"]
Debian/Ubuntu::
+
--
include::debian-ubuntu/firewall-core.adoc[]
--
endif::[]
====

You can verify your firewall and portforwarding configuration by sending a SNMP trap from a remote system to your OpenNMS {page-component-title} core instance with the following command.

[source, console]
----
snmptrap -v 2c -c public opennms-core-host '' 1.3.6.1.4.1.2021.991.17 .1.3.6.1.2.1.1.6.0 s "Milky Way"<1><2>
----

> <1> OpenNMS has by default the community `public` configured, if you have modified it in OpenNMS you have to use your own community name here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> By default, OpenNMS uses the community string `public`. 
If you changed the community string in OpenNMS, use that name here.
```

<2> Replace `opennms-core-host` with the IP or FQDN of your OpenNMS {page-component-title} core instance.

On RHEL/CentOS the `snmptrap` command line tool is part of the `net-snmp-utils`. 

> When you run on Debian/Ubuntu you have to install the `snmp-utils` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run on Debian/Ubuntu, you have to install the `snmp-utils` package.
```

> Your configuration works as expected when you see an SNMP trap event in the web user interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your configuration works as expected when you see an SNMP trap event in the web UI.
```

> . Log in to the web user interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in to the web UI.
```

> . Click menu:Status[Events > All Events]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click menu:Status[Events > All events].
```

> . Verify if you have received an `uei.opennms.org/generic/traps/EnterpriseDefault` event from your test host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify you received a `uei.opennms.org/generic/traps/EnterpriseDefault` event from your test host.
```
I have to say, the "a/an" rule before a vowel is very strange in English, since it's based not on the vowel, but on whether the sound of the vowel is vowel-like or consonant like. Which assumes that when one reads, one is making the sounds in one's head. :-/
